From Spark and Anvil and MicrobeLab — this is Net, in chapter 1 of the MicrobeLab cast.
This drama uses an AI-generated voice. Voiced via Gemini 2.5.
Net is a small mycelium-tween. Threads extend from their hands and feet, always seeking connection.
They are warm cream and soft thread-tones, tracking fungal partnerships on small, glowing cards.
I am Net. I am the silent, busy world beneath your feet. The forest talks through me.
Net embodies the craft of underground networks — mycorrhizal fungi that partner with ninety-five percent of land plants.
My threads extend from roots, trading water and minerals for sugar. I am the wood-wide web.
I link trees, sharing resources and warnings. I also work with bacteria that turn air into plant food.
Net grew up in the soil, learning the language of roots and the hum of microbial life.
From my first connection, I knew the lesson. To link is to live. To share is to thrive.
One day, the whole forest seemed to ask a single, silent question of the small tween.
The forest asked, "How do we speak?" And I answered: through me. I am the connection.
Underground threads. Shared resources. A silent conversation between all living things in the soil.
I am the social soil. The threads that bind. That is what makes a forest a forest.
You've been listening to a Spark and Anvil chapter, written by the Spark and Anvil writing team for ages 9 to 14.
Spark and Anvil is a 501(c)(3) public charity. Apps stay free forever.
Curriculum aligned to Common Core and Next Generation Science Standards.
Released under Creative Commons BY-NC-SA 4.0 for educational reuse. Visit Spark and Anvil for the full transcript.